readme.rst, before:

========
SPIRRID
========

The **SPIRRID** package is the part of the project SIMVISAGE 
(https://github.com/simvisage/spirrid). Use the zip button 
to download the source code for testing. Examples are accompanying 
the and extending the studies provided in the prepared paper 
*Using Python for scientific computing:
efficient and flexible evaluation of the statistical characteristics of functions with 
mutivariate random inputs, R. Chudoba, V. Sadilek, R. Rypl, and M. Vorechovsky, 
prepared for submission in CPC.
*

Documentation of the package generated using sphinx
===================================================

http://mordred.imb.rwth-aachen.de/docs/spirrid/


Installation instructions 
=========================

The Enthought Python Distribution (EPD) is available Windows, Linux and Mac 
operating systems at

http://www.enthought.com/products/epd.php

*On windows, there is some Cython problem (pyximport). At this time, we don't 
   have any simple solution. Due to this fact, it was removed from benchmark tests.*

*There is a commercial and academic version of EPD containing all required packages.
Free distribution of EPDFree does not contain all packages (mayavi, numexpr, cython).
These packages must be installed manually.*  
 
UBUNTU 10.04
------------

Enthought Tool Suite (ETS 3) and additional utilities can be installed using 
the standard package manager as::

	$ sudo apt-get install ipython python-traitsui python-scipy \
  		python-matplotlib mayavi2 cython
  		
*In order to make the comparison between numexpr and numpy efficiency
in the script examples.numexpr_test.numexpr_test
the python-numpexpr package must be installed separately as it is not
included in ubuntu 10.04 distribution.*

UBUNTU 11.04
------------

Enthought Tool Suite (ETS 4) and additional utilities are installed as::

    $ sudo apt-get install mayavi2 python-matplotlib \
        cython python-numexpr python-scipy

Other systems
-------------

For other systems and distributions use 
the description provided at and references there:

http://blog.enthought.com/open-source/ets-4-0-released/

Examples
========

spirrid/examples/demo.py
------------------------
 
To test spirrid package on prepared examples run::

	$ python demo.py

you get the user interface to run one of examples described in the last
section this document.

Package structure
=================

spirrid/
--------

This folder contains tools for random variable domain sampling, code generation and
numerical multidimensional statistical integration.


spirrid/pdistrib (library of statistical distributions)
--------

The package provides a traited wrapper for the scipy distributions.


spirrid/util
--------

This folder contains customized (extended) source code (enthought, scipy, numpy)
needed for running spirrid.


spirrid/examples/
--------

The directories "fiber_*" provides the performance studies of the spirrid
integration tool. There are three types of response functions
tested:

* fiber_tt_2p/: fiber tensile test with 2 parameters 
  one strong discontinuity) 
* fiber_tt_5p/: fiber tensile test with 5 parameters
  one strong and one weak discontinuity
* fiber_po_8p/: fiber pullout test with 7 parameters
  one strong, one weak discontinuity 
  and nonlinear range within the response

There are two tests:

* masked_arrays/: testing of speeding up of evaluation of general function
  using numpy.ma.array
* numexpr/: testing of speeding up of evaluation of fiber_tt_5p fiber tensile 
  test with 5 parameters one strong and one weak discontinuity) using numexpr

And:

* script.py: simple python script, described in paper "Using Python for scientific
  computing: efficient and flexible evaluation of the statistical
  characteristics of functions with multivariate random inputs"

Commit message:

Cleanup and description of estproxy and docs added to the readme

readme.rst, after:

========
SPIRRID
========

The **SPIRRID** package is the part of the project SIMVISAGE 
(https://github.com/simvisage/spirrid). Use the zip button 
to download the source code for testing. Examples are accompanying 
the and extending the studies provided in the prepared paper 
*Using Python for scientific computing:
efficient and flexible evaluation of the statistical characteristics of functions with 
mutivariate random inputs, R. Chudoba, V. Sadilek, R. Rypl, and M. Vorechovsky, 
prepared for submission in CPC.
*

Documentation of the package generated using sphinx
===================================================

http://mordred.imb.rwth-aachen.de/docs/spirrid/


Installation instructions 
=========================

The Enthought Python Distribution (EPD) is available Windows, Linux and Mac 
operating systems at

http://www.enthought.com/products/epd.php

*On windows, there is some Cython problem (pyximport). At this time, we don't 
   have any simple solution. Due to this fact, it was removed from benchmark tests.*

*There is a commercial and academic version of EPD containing all required packages.
Free distribution of EPDFree does not contain all packages (mayavi, numexpr, cython).
These packages must be installed manually.*  
 
UBUNTU 10.04
------------

Enthought Tool Suite (ETS 3) and additional utilities can be installed using 
the standard package manager as::

	$ sudo apt-get install ipython python-traitsui python-scipy \
  		python-matplotlib mayavi2 cython
  		
*In order to make the comparison between numexpr and numpy efficiency
in the script examples.numexpr_test.numexpr_test
the python-numpexpr package must be installed separately as it is not
included in ubuntu 10.04 distribution.*

UBUNTU 11.04
------------

Enthought Tool Suite (ETS 4) and additional utilities are installed as::

    $ sudo apt-get install mayavi2 python-matplotlib \
        cython python-numexpr python-scipy

Other systems
-------------

For other systems and distributions use 
the description provided at and references there:

http://blog.enthought.com/open-source/ets-4-0-released/

Examples
========

spirrid/examples/demo.py
------------------------
 
To test spirrid package on prepared examples run::

	$ python demo.py

you get the user interface to run one of examples described in the last
section this document.

Package structure
=================

spirrid/
--------

This folder contains tools for random variable domain sampling, code generation and
numerical multidimensional statistical integration.


spirrid/pdistrib (library of statistical distributions)
--------

The package provides a traited wrapper for the scipy distributions.

spirrid/docs
--------

Package generating the documentation from the source code 
and from the demonstration examples. 

spirrid/etsproxy
--------

Subsidiary package needed to support both ETS 3 and ETS 4 with changed import paths. 

spirrid/util
--------

This folder contains customized (extended) source code (enthought, scipy, numpy)
needed for running spirrid.


spirrid/examples/
--------

The directories "fiber_*" provides the performance studies of the spirrid
integration tool. There are three types of response functions
tested:

* fiber_tt_2p/: fiber tensile test with 2 parameters 
  one strong discontinuity) 
* fiber_tt_5p/: fiber tensile test with 5 parameters
  one strong and one weak discontinuity
* fiber_po_8p/: fiber pullout test with 7 parameters
  one strong, one weak discontinuity 
  and nonlinear range within the response

There are two tests:

* masked_arrays/: testing of speeding up of evaluation of general function
  using numpy.ma.array
* numexpr/: testing of speeding up of evaluation of fiber_tt_5p fiber tensile 
  test with 5 parameters one strong and one weak discontinuity) using numexpr

And:

* script.py: simple python script, described in paper "Using Python for scientific
  computing: efficient and flexible evaluation of the statistical
  characteristics of functions with multivariate random inputs"
